en/deploy-ticdc.md, before:

---
title: Deploy TiCDC in Kubernetes
summary: Learn how to deploy TiCDC in Kubernetes.
draft: false
aliases: ['/docs/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/deploy-ticdc/']
---

# Deploy TiCDC in Kubernetes

[TiCDC](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/ticdc-overview) is a tool for replicating the incremental data of TiDB. This document describes how to deploy TiCDC in Kubernetes using TiDB Operator.

You can deploy TiCDC when deploying a new TiDB cluster, or add the TiCDC component to an existing TiDB cluster.

## Prerequisites

TiDB Operator is [deployed](deploy-tidb-operator.md).

## Fresh TiCDC deployment

To deploy TiCDC when deploying the TiDB cluster, refer to [Deploy TiDB in General Kubernetes](deploy-on-general-kubernetes.md).

## Add TiCDC to an existing TiDB cluster

1. Edit `TidbCluster` Custom Resource:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ``` shell
    kubectl edit tc ${cluster_name} -n ${namespace}
    ```

2. Add the TiCDC configuration as follows:

    ```yaml
    spec:
      ticdc:
        baseImage: pingcap/ticdc
        replicas: 3
    ```

    To deploy Enterprise Edition of TiCDC, edit the `db.yaml` file to set `spec.ticdc.baseImage` to the enterprise image (`pingcap/ticdc-enterprise`).

    For example:

    ```yaml
    spec:
     ticdc:
       baseImage: pingcap/ticdc-enterprise
    ```

3. After the deployment, enter a TiCDC Pod by running `kubectl exec`:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl exec -it ${pod_name} -n ${namespace} -- sh
    ```

4. [Manage the cluster and data replication tasks](https://pingcap.com/docs/stable/ticdc/manage-ticdc/#use-cdc-cli-to-manage-cluster-status-and-data-replication-task) by using `cdc cli`.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    /cdc cli capture list --pd=http://${cluster_name}-pd:2379
    ```

    ```shell
    [
      {
        "id": "3ed24f6c-22cf-446f-9fe0-bf4a66d00f5b",
        "is-owner": false,
        "address": "${cluster_name}-ticdc-2.${cluster_name}-ticdc-peer.${namespace}.svc:8301"
      },
      {
        "id": "60e98ed7-cd49-45f4-b5ae-d3b85ba3cd96",
        "is-owner": false,
        "address": "${cluster_name}-ticdc-0.${cluster_name}-ticdc-peer.${namespace}.svc:8301"
      },
      {
        "id": "dc3592c0-dace-42a0-8afc-fb8506e8271c",
        "is-owner": true,
        "address": "${cluster_name}-ticdc-1.${cluster_name}-ticdc-peer.${namespace}.svc:8301"
      }
    ]
    ```

    Starting from v4.0.3, TiCDC supports TLS. TiDB Operator supports enabling TLS for TiCDC since v1.1.3.

    If TLS is enabled when you create the TiDB cluster, add TLS certificate-related parameters when you use `cdc cli`.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    /cdc cli capture list --pd=https://${cluster_name}-pd:2379 --ca=/var/lib/cluster-client-tls/ca.crt --cert=/var/lib/cluster-client-tls/tls.crt --key=/var/lib/cluster-client-tls/tls.key
    ```

    If the server does not have an external network, refer to [deploy TiDB cluster](deploy-on-general-kubernetes.md#deploy-the-tidb-cluster) to download the required Docker image on the machine with an external network and upload it to the server.

Commit message:

add volume mount docs for ticdc (#1733)

en/deploy-ticdc.md, after:

---
title: Deploy TiCDC in Kubernetes
summary: Learn how to deploy TiCDC in Kubernetes.
draft: false
aliases: ['/docs/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/deploy-ticdc/']
---

# Deploy TiCDC in Kubernetes

[TiCDC](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/ticdc-overview) is a tool for replicating the incremental data of TiDB. This document describes how to deploy TiCDC in Kubernetes using TiDB Operator.

You can deploy TiCDC when deploying a new TiDB cluster, or add the TiCDC component to an existing TiDB cluster.

## Prerequisites

TiDB Operator is [deployed](deploy-tidb-operator.md).

## Fresh TiCDC deployment

To deploy TiCDC when deploying the TiDB cluster, refer to [Deploy TiDB in General Kubernetes](deploy-on-general-kubernetes.md).

## Add TiCDC to an existing TiDB cluster

1. Edit `TidbCluster` Custom Resource:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ``` shell
    kubectl edit tc ${cluster_name} -n ${namespace}
    ```

2. Add the TiCDC configuration as follows:

    ```yaml
    spec:
      ticdc:
        baseImage: pingcap/ticdc
        replicas: 3
    ```

    To deploy Enterprise Edition of TiCDC, edit the `db.yaml` file to set `spec.ticdc.baseImage` to the enterprise image (`pingcap/ticdc-enterprise`).

    For example:

    ```yaml
    spec:
     ticdc:
       baseImage: pingcap/ticdc-enterprise
    ```

3. Mount persistent volumes (PVs) for TiCDC。

    TiCDC supports mounting multiple PV. It is recommended that you plan the number of PVs required when deploying TiCDC for the first time. For more information, refer to [Multiple disks mounting](configure-a-tidb-cluster.md#multiple-disks-mounting)。

4. After the deployment, enter a TiCDC Pod by running `kubectl exec`:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl exec -it ${pod_name} -n ${namespace} -- sh
    ```

5. [Manage the cluster and data replication tasks](https://pingcap.com/docs/stable/ticdc/manage-ticdc/#use-cdc-cli-to-manage-cluster-status-and-data-replication-task) by using `cdc cli`.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    /cdc cli capture list --pd=http://${cluster_name}-pd:2379
    ```

    ```shell
    [
      {
        "id": "3ed24f6c-22cf-446f-9fe0-bf4a66d00f5b",
        "is-owner": false,
        "address": "${cluster_name}-ticdc-2.${cluster_name}-ticdc-peer.${namespace}.svc:8301"
      },
      {
        "id": "60e98ed7-cd49-45f4-b5ae-d3b85ba3cd96",
        "is-owner": false,
        "address": "${cluster_name}-ticdc-0.${cluster_name}-ticdc-peer.${namespace}.svc:8301"
      },
      {
        "id": "dc3592c0-dace-42a0-8afc-fb8506e8271c",
        "is-owner": true,
        "address": "${cluster_name}-ticdc-1.${cluster_name}-ticdc-peer.${namespace}.svc:8301"
      }
    ]
    ```

    Starting from v4.0.3, TiCDC supports TLS. TiDB Operator supports enabling TLS for TiCDC since v1.1.3.

    If TLS is enabled when you create the TiDB cluster, add TLS certificate-related parameters when you use `cdc cli`.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    /cdc cli capture list --pd=https://${cluster_name}-pd:2379 --ca=/var/lib/cluster-client-tls/ca.crt --cert=/var/lib/cluster-client-tls/tls.crt --key=/var/lib/cluster-client-tls/tls.key
    ```

    If the server does not have an external network, refer to [deploy TiDB cluster](deploy-on-general-kubernetes.md#deploy-the-tidb-cluster) to download the required Docker image on the machine with an external network and upload it to the server.
