---
title: TiDB Operator v1.1 Notes
summary: Learn the important notes for TiDB Operator v1.1.
category: how-to
---

# TiDB Operator v1.1 Notes

This document introduces important notes for TiDB Operator v1.1.

## PingCAP no longer updates or maintains tidb-cluster chart

Since TiDB Operator v1.1.0, PingCAP no longer updates or maintains the tidb-cluster chart. The components and features that have been managed using the tidb-cluster chart will be managed in new ways in v1.1. See the following table for details:

| Components/Features | Managements in v1.1 |
| :--- | :--- |
| TiDB Cluster (PD, TiDB, TiKV) | [TidbCluster CR](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/blob/master/docs/api-references/docs.html) |
| TiDB Monitor | [TidbMonitor CR](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/blob/master/manifests/monitor/tidb-monitor.yaml) |
| TiDB Initializer | [TidbInitializer CR](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/blob/master/manifests/initializer/tidb-initializer.yaml) |
| Scheduled Backup | [BackupSchedule CR](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/blob/master/manifests/backup/backup-schedule-aws-s3-br.yaml) |
| Pump | [TidbCluster CR](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/blob/master/docs/api-references/docs.html) |
| Drainer | [tidb-drainer chart](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/tree/master/charts/tidb-drainer) |
| Importer | [tikv-importer chart](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/tree/master/charts/tikv-importer) |

- PingCAP will continue releasing new versions of the tidb-cluster chart but will not add new features to it such as the component TLS (now partially supported), auto-scaling of TiKV and TiDB.

- If you have deployed your TiDB cluster by TiDB Operator (v1.0.0 <= version < v1.1), after TiDB Operator is upgraded to v1.1, you can still upgrade and manage your TiDB cluster using the tidb-cluster chart v1.1.

## Switch the components and features managed by tidb-cluster chart to services fully supported by TiDB Operator v1.1

In TiDB Operator v1.1, you can still manage your cluster using Helm and the tidb-cluster chart. Although new features will not be added to the tidb-cluster chart, you can contribute new features to the tidb-cluster chart by yourself, or switch to services that are fully supported by TiDB Operator v1.1.

This section describes how to switch your components and features to services in TiBD Operator v1.1.

### Discovery

The Discovery service is generated by TiDB Operator automatically, so you do not need to configure it on your own.

### PD/TiDB/TiKV

In tidb-cluster chart, the configurations of PD, TiDB, and TiKV are rendered into ConfigMap by Helm.

Since TiDB Operator v1.1, you can configure TiDB, TiKV, and PD directly in TidbCluster Custom Resouce (CR). For configuration details, refer to [Configure a TiDB Cluster using TidbCluster](configure-cluster-using-tidbcluster.md).

> **Note:**
>
> The way TiDB Operator renders configurations is different from that of Helm. If you migrate configurations from `tidb-cluster chart values.yaml` to CR, the corresponding components might be rolling updated.

### Monitor

To create the TidbMonitor CR and manage the Monitor component, refer to [Monitor a TiDB Cluster using TidbMonitor](monitor-using-tidbmonitor.md).

> **Note:**
>
> * The `metadata.name` in the TidbMonitor CR must be consistent with the name of the TidbCluster CR in the cluster.
> * The way TiDB Operator renders resources is different from that of Helm. If you migrate configurations from `tidb-cluster chart values.yaml` to TidbMonitor CR, the Monitor component might be rolling updated.

### Initializer

- If the initialization job is executed before TiDB Operator is upgraded to v1.1, the initialization job does not need to be migrated from the tidb-cluster chart to the TidbInitializer CR.

- If the initialization job is not executed before TiDB Operator is upgraded to v1.1, and the password for the TiDB root user is not modified, you need to initialize your cluster after upgrading to TiDB Operator v1.1. For details, refer to [Initialize a TiDB Cluster in Kubernetes](initialize-a-cluster.md).

### Pump

After TiDB Operator is upgraded to v1.1, you can modify the TidbCluster CR and add the configuration of Pump. You can then manage the Pump component using TidbCluster CR.

``` yaml
spec
  ...
  pump:
    baseImage: pingcap/tidb-binlog
    version: v3.0.11
    replicas: 1
    storageClassName: local-storage
    requests:
      storage: 30Gi
    schedulerName: default-scheduler
    config:
      addr: 0.0.0.0:8250
      gc: 7
      heartbeat-interval: 2
```

You can modify `version`, `replicas`, `storageClassName`, `requests.storage`, and other configurations according to the needs of your cluster.

> **Note:**
>
> The way TiDB Operator renders resources is different from that of Helm. If you migrate configurations from `tidb-cluster chart values.yaml` to TidbCluster CR, the Pump component might be rolling updated.

### Scheduled Backup

After TiDB Operator is upgraded to v1.1, you can configure the scheduled full backup using BackupSchedule CR:

- If the TiDB cluster version < v3.1, refer to [Scheduled backup using mydumper](backup-to-s3.md#scheduled-full-backup-to-s3-compatible-storage)
- If the TiDB cluster version >= v3.1, refer to [Scheduled backup using BR](backup-to-aws-s3-using-br.md#scheduled-full-backup-to-s3-compatible-storage)

> **Note:**
>
> - Currently, with BackupSchedule CR, you can only back up data to S3 and GCS using mydumper, and back up data to S3 using BR. If your scheduled full backup sends data to local Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) before upgrade, it cannot switch to management by CR after upgrade.
> - If you switch to management by CR, to avoid repeated backup, delete the Cronjob of the previous scheduled full backup.

### Drainer

- If Drainer is not deployed before TiDB Operator is upgraded to v1.1, you can deploy Drainer as in [Deploy multiple drainers](maintain-tidb-binlog.md#deploy-multiple-drainers).
- If Drainer is already deployed before TiDB Operator is upgraded to v1.1, it is recommended to manage Drainer using kubectl.

### TiKV Importer

- If TiKV Importer is not deployed before TiDB Operator is upgraded to v1.1, you can deploy TiKV Importer as in [Deploy TiKV Importer](restore-data-using-tidb-lightning.md#deploy-tikv-importer).
- If TiKV Importer is already deployed before TiDB Operator is upgraded to v1.1, it is recommended to manage TiKV Importer using kubectl.
