en/TOC.md, before:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD007 -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 -->

- Introduction
  - [Overview](tidb-operator-overview.md)
  - [What's New in v1.2](whats-new-in-v1.2.md)
- [Get Started](get-started.md)
- Deploy
  - In Self-Managed Kubernetes
    - [Prerequisites](prerequisites.md)
    - [Configure Storage Class](configure-storage-class.md)
    - [Deploy TiDB Operator](deploy-tidb-operator.md)
    - [Configure a TiDB Cluster](configure-a-tidb-cluster.md)
    - [Deploy a TiDB Cluster](deploy-on-general-kubernetes.md)
    - [Initialize a TiDB Cluster](initialize-a-cluster.md)
    - [Access a TiDB Cluster](access-tidb.md)
  - In Public Cloud Kubernetes
    - [Amazon EKS](deploy-on-aws-eks.md)
    - [GCP GKE](deploy-on-gcp-gke.md)
    - [Azure AKS](deploy-on-azure-aks.md)
    - [Alibaba Cloud ACK](deploy-on-alibaba-cloud.md)
  - [Deploy TiDB on ARM64 Machines](deploy-cluster-on-arm64.md)
  - [Deploy TiFlash to Explore TiDB HTAP](deploy-tiflash.md)
  - Deploy TiDB Across Multiple Kubernetes Clusters
    - [Build Multiple Interconnected AWS EKS Clusters](build-multi-aws-eks.md)
    - [Build Multiple Interconnected GCP GKE Clusters](build-multi-gcp-gke.md)
    - [Deploy TiDB Across Multiple Kubernetes Clusters](deploy-tidb-cluster-across-multiple-kubernetes.md)
  - [Heterogeneous TiDB Cluster](deploy-heterogeneous-tidb-cluster.md)
  - [TiDB Enterprise Edition](deploy-tidb-enterprise-edition.md)
  - [Deploy TiCDC](deploy-ticdc.md)
  - [Deploy TiDB Binlog](deploy-tidb-binlog.md)
- Migrate
  - [Import Data](restore-data-using-tidb-lightning.md)
  - Migrate from MySQL
    - [Deploy DM](deploy-tidb-dm.md)
    - [Migrate to TiDB Using DM](use-tidb-dm.md)
  - [Migrate TiDB to Kubernetes](migrate-tidb-to-kubernetes.md)
- Manage
  - Secure
    - [Enable TLS for the MySQL Client](enable-tls-for-mysql-client.md)
    - [Enable TLS between TiDB Components](enable-tls-between-components.md)
    - [Enable TLS for DM](enable-tls-for-dm.md)
    - [Replicate Data to TLS-enabled Downstream Services](enable-tls-for-ticdc-sink.md)
    - [Renew and Replace TLS Certificate](renew-tls-certificate.md)
    - [Run Containers as a Non-root User](containers-run-as-non-root-user.md)
  - Scale
    - [Manually Scale](scale-a-tidb-cluster.md)
    - [Automatically Scale](enable-tidb-cluster-auto-scaling.md)
  - Upgrade
    - [Upgrade a TiDB Cluster](upgrade-a-tidb-cluster.md)
    - Upgrade TiDB Operator
      - [Normal Upgrade](upgrade-tidb-operator.md)
      - [Canary Upgrade](canary-upgrade-tidb-operator.md)
  - Backup and Restore
    - [Overview](backup-restore-overview.md)
    - [Grant Permissions to Remote Storage](grant-permissions-to-remote-storage.md)
    - Amazon S3 Compatible Storage
      - [Back Up Data Using BR](backup-to-aws-s3-using-br.md)
      - [Restore Data Using BR](restore-from-aws-s3-using-br.md)
      - [Back Up Data Using Dumpling](backup-to-s3.md)
      - [Restore Data Using TiDB Lightning](restore-from-s3.md)
    - Google Cloud Storage
      - [Back Up Data Using BR](backup-to-gcs-using-br.md)
      - [Restore Data Using BR](restore-from-gcs-using-br.md)
      - [Back Up Data Using Dumpling](backup-to-gcs.md)
      - [Restore Data Using TiDB Lightning](restore-from-gcs.md)
    - Persistent Volumes
      - [Back Up Data](backup-to-pv-using-br.md)
      - [Restore Data](restore-from-pv-using-br.md)
  - Maintain
    - [Restart a TiDB Cluster](restart-a-tidb-cluster.md)
    - [Destroy a TiDB Cluster](destroy-a-tidb-cluster.md)
    - [View TiDB Logs](view-logs.md)
    - [Modify TiDB Cluster Configuration](modify-tidb-configuration.md)
    - [Configure Automatic Failover](use-auto-failover.md)
    - [Pause Sync of TiDB Cluster](pause-sync-of-tidb-cluster.md)
    - [Maintain Different TiDB Clusters Separately Using Multiple TiDB Operator](deploy-multiple-tidb-operator.md)
    - [Maintain Kubernetes Nodes](maintain-a-kubernetes-node.md)
    - [Migrate from Helm 2 to Helm 3](migrate-to-helm3.md)
  - Monitor and Alert
    - [Deploy Monitoring and Alerts for TiDB](monitor-a-tidb-cluster.md)
    - [Monitor and Diagnose TiDB Using TiDB Dashboard](access-dashboard.md)
    - [Aggregate Monitoring Data of Multiple TiDB Clusters](aggregate-multiple-cluster-monitor-data.md)
  - Disaster Recovery
    - [Recover a Deleted TiDB Cluster](recover-deleted-cluster.md)
    - [Recover a PD Cluster](pd-recover.md)
- Troubleshoot
  - [Troubleshooting Tips](tips.md)
  - [Deployment Failures](deploy-failures.md)
  - [Cluster Exceptions](exceptions.md)
  - [Network Issues](network-issues.md)
- [FAQs](faq.md)
- Reference
  - Architecture
    - [TiDB Operator](architecture.md)
    - [TiDB Scheduler](tidb-scheduler.md)
    - [Advanced StatefulSet Controller](advanced-statefulset.md)
    - [Admission Controller](enable-admission-webhook.md)
  - [Sysbench Performance Test](benchmark-sysbench.md)
  - [API References](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/blob/master/docs/api-references/docs.md)
  - [Cheat Sheet](cheat-sheet.md)
  - [Required RBAC Rules](tidb-operator-rbac.md)
  - Tools
    - [tkctl](use-tkctl.md)
    - [TiDB Toolkit](tidb-toolkit.md)
  - Configure
    - [Configure tidb-drainer Chart](configure-tidb-binlog-drainer.md)
    - [Configure tidb-cluster Chart](tidb-cluster-chart-config.md)
    - [Configure tidb-backup Chart](configure-backup.md)
  - [Log Collection](logs-collection.md)
  - [Monitoring and Alert on Kubernetes](monitor-kubernetes.md)
- Release Notes
  - v1.2
    - [1.2.7](releases/release-1.2.7.md)
    - [1.2.6](releases/release-1.2.6.md)
    - [1.2.5](releases/release-1.2.5.md)
    - [1.2.4](releases/release-1.2.4.md)
    - [1.2.3](releases/release-1.2.3.md)
    - [1.2.2](releases/release-1.2.2.md)
    - [1.2.1](releases/release-1.2.1.md)
    - [1.2 GA](releases/release-1.2.0.md)
    - [1.2.0-rc.2](releases/release-1.2.0-rc.2.md)
    - [1.2.0-rc.1](releases/release-1.2.0-rc.1.md)
    - [1.2.0-beta.2](releases/release-1.2.0-beta.2.md)
    - [1.2.0-beta.1](releases/release-1.2.0-beta.1.md)
    - [1.2.0-alpha.1](releases/release-1.2.0-alpha.1.md)
  - v1.1
    - [1.1.15](releases/release-1.1.15.md)
    - [1.1.14](releases/release-1.1.14.md)
    - [1.1.13](releases/release-1.1.13.md)
    - [1.1.12](releases/release-1.1.12.md)
    - [1.1.11](releases/release-1.1.11.md)
    - [1.1.10](releases/release-1.1.10.md)
    - [1.1.9](releases/release-1.1.9.md)
    - [1.1.8](releases/release-1.1.8.md)
    - [1.1.7](releases/release-1.1.7.md)
    - [1.1.6](releases/release-1.1.6.md)
    - [1.1.5](releases/release-1.1.5.md)
    - [1.1.4](releases/release-1.1.4.md)
    - [1.1.3](releases/release-1.1.3.md)
    - [1.1.2](releases/release-1.1.2.md)
    - [1.1.1](releases/release-1.1.1.md)
    - [1.1 GA](releases/release-1.1-ga.md)
    - [1.1.0-rc.4](releases/release-1.1.0-rc.4.md)
    - [1.1.0-rc.3](releases/release-1.1.0-rc.3.md)
    - [1.1.0-rc.2](releases/release-1.1.0-rc.2.md)
    - [1.1.0-rc.1](releases/release-1.1.0-rc.1.md)
    - [1.1.0-beta.2](releases/release-1.1.0-beta.2.md)
    - [1.1.0-beta.1](releases/release-1.1.0-beta.1.md)
  - v1.0
    - [1.0.7](releases/release-1.0.7.md)
    - [1.0.6](releases/release-1.0.6.md)
    - [1.0.5](releases/release-1.0.5.md)
    - [1.0.4](releases/release-1.0.4.md)
    - [1.0.3](releases/release-1.0.3.md)
    - [1.0.2](releases/release-1.0.2.md)
    - [1.0.1](releases/release-1.0.1.md)
    - [1.0 GA](releases/release-1.0-ga.md)
    - [1.0.0-rc.1](releases/release-1.0.0-rc.1.md)
    - [1.0.0-beta.3](releases/release-1.0.0-beta.3.md)
    - [1.0.0-beta.2](releases/release-1.0.0-beta.2.md)
    - [1.0.0-beta.1-p2](releases/release-1.0.0-beta.1-p2.md)
    - [1.0.0-beta.1-p1](releases/release-1.0.0-beta.1-p1.md)
    - [1.0.0-beta.1](releases/release-1.0.0-beta.1.md)
    - [1.0.0-beta.0](releases/release-1.0.0-beta.0.md)
  - v0
    - [0.4.0](releases/release-0.4.0.md)
    - [0.3.1](releases/release-0.3.1.md)
    - [0.3.0](releases/release-0.3.0.md)
    - [0.2.1](releases/release-0.2.1.md)
    - [0.2.0](releases/release-0.2.0.md)
    - [0.1.0](releases/release-0.1.0.md)

Commit message:

This is an automated cherry-pick of #1535
Signed-off-by: ti-chi-bot <ti-community-prow-bot@tidb.io>

en/TOC.md, after:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD007 -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 -->

- Introduction
  - [Overview](tidb-operator-overview.md)
  - [What's New in v1.2](whats-new-in-v1.2.md)
- [Get Started](get-started.md)
- Deploy
  - In Self-Managed Kubernetes
    - [Prerequisites](prerequisites.md)
    - [Configure Storage Class](configure-storage-class.md)
    - [Deploy TiDB Operator](deploy-tidb-operator.md)
    - [Configure a TiDB Cluster](configure-a-tidb-cluster.md)
    - [Deploy a TiDB Cluster](deploy-on-general-kubernetes.md)
    - [Initialize a TiDB Cluster](initialize-a-cluster.md)
    - [Access a TiDB Cluster](access-tidb.md)
  - In Public Cloud Kubernetes
    - [Amazon EKS](deploy-on-aws-eks.md)
    - [GCP GKE](deploy-on-gcp-gke.md)
    - [Azure AKS](deploy-on-azure-aks.md)
    - [Alibaba Cloud ACK](deploy-on-alibaba-cloud.md)
  - [Deploy TiDB on ARM64 Machines](deploy-cluster-on-arm64.md)
  - [Deploy TiFlash to Explore TiDB HTAP](deploy-tiflash.md)
  - Deploy TiDB Across Multiple Kubernetes Clusters
    - [Build Multiple Interconnected AWS EKS Clusters](build-multi-aws-eks.md)
    - [Build Multiple Interconnected GCP GKE Clusters](build-multi-gcp-gke.md)
    - [Deploy TiDB Across Multiple Kubernetes Clusters](deploy-tidb-cluster-across-multiple-kubernetes.md)
  - [Deploy a Heterogeneous TiDB Cluster](deploy-heterogeneous-tidb-cluster.md)
  - [Deploy the TiDB Enterprise Edition](deploy-tidb-enterprise-edition.md)
  - [Deploy TiCDC](deploy-ticdc.md)
  - [Deploy TiDB Binlog](deploy-tidb-binlog.md)
- Monitor and Alert
  - [Deploy Monitoring and Alerts for TiDB](monitor-a-tidb-cluster.md)
  - [Monitor and Diagnose TiDB Using TiDB Dashboard](access-dashboard.md)
  - [Aggregate Monitoring Data of Multiple TiDB Clusters](aggregate-multiple-cluster-monitor-data.md)
  - [Enable Dynamic Configuration for TidbMonitor](enable-monitor-dynamic-configuration.md)
  - [Enable Shards for TidbMonitor](enable-monitor-shards.md)
- Migrate
  - [Import Data](restore-data-using-tidb-lightning.md)
  - Migrate from MySQL
    - [Deploy DM](deploy-tidb-dm.md)
    - [Migrate to TiDB Using DM](use-tidb-dm.md)
  - [Migrate TiDB to Kubernetes](migrate-tidb-to-kubernetes.md)
- Manage
  - Secure
    - [Enable TLS for the MySQL Client](enable-tls-for-mysql-client.md)
    - [Enable TLS between TiDB Components](enable-tls-between-components.md)
    - [Enable TLS for DM](enable-tls-for-dm.md)
    - [Replicate Data to TLS-enabled Downstream Services](enable-tls-for-ticdc-sink.md)
    - [Renew and Replace the TLS Certificate](renew-tls-certificate.md)
    - [Run Containers as a Non-root User](containers-run-as-non-root-user.md)
  - Scale
    - [Manually Scale](scale-a-tidb-cluster.md)
    - [Automatically Scale](enable-tidb-cluster-auto-scaling.md)
  - Upgrade
    - [Upgrade a TiDB Cluster](upgrade-a-tidb-cluster.md)
    - Upgrade TiDB Operator
      - [Normal Upgrade](upgrade-tidb-operator.md)
      - [Canary Upgrade](canary-upgrade-tidb-operator.md)
  - Backup and Restore
    - [Overview](backup-restore-overview.md)
    - [Grant Permissions to Remote Storage](grant-permissions-to-remote-storage.md)
    - Amazon S3 Compatible Storage
      - [Back Up Data Using BR](backup-to-aws-s3-using-br.md)
      - [Restore Data Using BR](restore-from-aws-s3-using-br.md)
      - [Back Up Data Using Dumpling](backup-to-s3.md)
      - [Restore Data Using TiDB Lightning](restore-from-s3.md)
    - Google Cloud Storage
      - [Back Up Data Using BR](backup-to-gcs-using-br.md)
      - [Restore Data Using BR](restore-from-gcs-using-br.md)
      - [Back Up Data Using Dumpling](backup-to-gcs.md)
      - [Restore Data Using TiDB Lightning](restore-from-gcs.md)
    - Persistent Volumes
      - [Back Up Data](backup-to-pv-using-br.md)
      - [Restore Data](restore-from-pv-using-br.md)
  - Maintain
    - [Restart a TiDB Cluster](restart-a-tidb-cluster.md)
    - [Destroy a TiDB Cluster](destroy-a-tidb-cluster.md)
    - [View TiDB Logs](view-logs.md)
    - [Modify TiDB Cluster Configuration](modify-tidb-configuration.md)
    - [Configure Automatic Failover](use-auto-failover.md)
    - [Pause Sync of TiDB Cluster](pause-sync-of-tidb-cluster.md)
    - [Maintain Different TiDB Clusters Separately Using Multiple TiDB Operator](deploy-multiple-tidb-operator.md)
    - [Maintain Kubernetes Nodes](maintain-a-kubernetes-node.md)
    - [Migrate from Helm 2 to Helm 3](migrate-to-helm3.md)
<<<<<<< HEAD
  - Monitor and Alert
    - [Deploy Monitoring and Alerts for TiDB](monitor-a-tidb-cluster.md)
    - [Monitor and Diagnose TiDB Using TiDB Dashboard](access-dashboard.md)
    - [Aggregate Monitoring Data of Multiple TiDB Clusters](aggregate-multiple-cluster-monitor-data.md)
=======
>>>>>>> 668c2b5f (en, zh: update index and TOC organization (#1535))
  - Disaster Recovery
    - [Recover a Deleted TiDB Cluster](recover-deleted-cluster.md)
    - [Recover a PD Cluster](pd-recover.md)
- Troubleshoot
  - [Troubleshooting Tips](tips.md)
  - [Deployment Failures](deploy-failures.md)
  - [Cluster Exceptions](exceptions.md)
  - [Network Issues](network-issues.md)
- [FAQs](faq.md)
- Reference
  - Architecture
    - [TiDB Operator](architecture.md)
    - [TiDB Scheduler](tidb-scheduler.md)
    - [Advanced StatefulSet Controller](advanced-statefulset.md)
    - [Admission Controller](enable-admission-webhook.md)
  - [Sysbench Performance Test](benchmark-sysbench.md)
  - [API References](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/blob/master/docs/api-references/docs.md)
  - [Cheat Sheet](cheat-sheet.md)
  - [Required RBAC Rules](tidb-operator-rbac.md)
  - Tools
    - [tkctl](use-tkctl.md)
    - [TiDB Toolkit](tidb-toolkit.md)
  - Configure
    - [Configure tidb-drainer Chart](configure-tidb-binlog-drainer.md)
    - [Configure tidb-cluster Chart](tidb-cluster-chart-config.md)
    - [Configure tidb-backup Chart](configure-backup.md)
  - [Log Collection](logs-collection.md)
  - [Monitoring and Alert on Kubernetes](monitor-kubernetes.md)
- Release Notes
  - v1.2
    - [1.2.7](releases/release-1.2.7.md)
    - [1.2.6](releases/release-1.2.6.md)
    - [1.2.5](releases/release-1.2.5.md)
    - [1.2.4](releases/release-1.2.4.md)
    - [1.2.3](releases/release-1.2.3.md)
    - [1.2.2](releases/release-1.2.2.md)
    - [1.2.1](releases/release-1.2.1.md)
    - [1.2 GA](releases/release-1.2.0.md)
    - [1.2.0-rc.2](releases/release-1.2.0-rc.2.md)
    - [1.2.0-rc.1](releases/release-1.2.0-rc.1.md)
    - [1.2.0-beta.2](releases/release-1.2.0-beta.2.md)
    - [1.2.0-beta.1](releases/release-1.2.0-beta.1.md)
    - [1.2.0-alpha.1](releases/release-1.2.0-alpha.1.md)
  - v1.1
    - [1.1.15](releases/release-1.1.15.md)
    - [1.1.14](releases/release-1.1.14.md)
    - [1.1.13](releases/release-1.1.13.md)
    - [1.1.12](releases/release-1.1.12.md)
    - [1.1.11](releases/release-1.1.11.md)
    - [1.1.10](releases/release-1.1.10.md)
    - [1.1.9](releases/release-1.1.9.md)
    - [1.1.8](releases/release-1.1.8.md)
    - [1.1.7](releases/release-1.1.7.md)
    - [1.1.6](releases/release-1.1.6.md)
    - [1.1.5](releases/release-1.1.5.md)
    - [1.1.4](releases/release-1.1.4.md)
    - [1.1.3](releases/release-1.1.3.md)
    - [1.1.2](releases/release-1.1.2.md)
    - [1.1.1](releases/release-1.1.1.md)
    - [1.1 GA](releases/release-1.1-ga.md)
    - [1.1.0-rc.4](releases/release-1.1.0-rc.4.md)
    - [1.1.0-rc.3](releases/release-1.1.0-rc.3.md)
    - [1.1.0-rc.2](releases/release-1.1.0-rc.2.md)
    - [1.1.0-rc.1](releases/release-1.1.0-rc.1.md)
    - [1.1.0-beta.2](releases/release-1.1.0-beta.2.md)
    - [1.1.0-beta.1](releases/release-1.1.0-beta.1.md)
  - v1.0
    - [1.0.7](releases/release-1.0.7.md)
    - [1.0.6](releases/release-1.0.6.md)
    - [1.0.5](releases/release-1.0.5.md)
    - [1.0.4](releases/release-1.0.4.md)
    - [1.0.3](releases/release-1.0.3.md)
    - [1.0.2](releases/release-1.0.2.md)
    - [1.0.1](releases/release-1.0.1.md)
    - [1.0 GA](releases/release-1.0-ga.md)
    - [1.0.0-rc.1](releases/release-1.0.0-rc.1.md)
    - [1.0.0-beta.3](releases/release-1.0.0-beta.3.md)
    - [1.0.0-beta.2](releases/release-1.0.0-beta.2.md)
    - [1.0.0-beta.1-p2](releases/release-1.0.0-beta.1-p2.md)
    - [1.0.0-beta.1-p1](releases/release-1.0.0-beta.1-p1.md)
    - [1.0.0-beta.1](releases/release-1.0.0-beta.1.md)
    - [1.0.0-beta.0](releases/release-1.0.0-beta.0.md)
  - v0
    - [0.4.0](releases/release-0.4.0.md)
    - [0.3.1](releases/release-0.3.1.md)
    - [0.3.0](releases/release-0.3.0.md)
    - [0.2.1](releases/release-0.2.1.md)
    - [0.2.0](releases/release-0.2.0.md)
    - [0.1.0](releases/release-0.1.0.md)
