README.md, before:

# TiDB on Kubernetes Documentation

This repository stores all the source files of [TiDB on Kubernetes documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/) at the PingCAP website. That is, the documentation for [TiDB Operator](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator).

Currently, the official documentation supports two languages:

- `en`: [documentation in English](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable)
- `zh`: [documentation in Chinese](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable)

You can use Google Translate to view the documentation in different languages. For example:

- `fr`: [documentation in French](https://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=en&tl=fr&u=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpingcap%2Fdocs-tidb-operator%2Fblob%2Fmaster%2Fen%2FTOC.md)
- `ja`: [documentation in Japanese](https://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=en&tl=ja&u=https://github.com/pingcap/docs-tidb-operator/blob/master/en/TOC.md)
- `ko`: [documentation in Korean](https://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=en&tl=ko&u=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpingcap%2Fdocs-tidb-operator%2Fblob%2Fmaster%2Fen%2FTOC.md)

## Documentation versions

Currently, we maintain the following versions for TiDB on Kubernetes documentation, each with a separate branch:

| Branch name | Version description |
| :--- | :-- |
| `master` | the latest development version |
| `release-1.1` | the 1.1 rc version |
| `release-1.0` | the latest 1.0 stable version |

> **Note:**
>
> - Previously, we maintain the TiDB on Kubernetes documentation in the [docs](https://github.com/pingcap/docs) and [docs-cn](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn) repository.
> - Since March 31, 2020, all the TiDB on Kubernetes documentation has been moved to this repository, and maintained based on versions in the branches above.

Commit message:

*: update license to CC BY-SA 3.0 (#2304)

README.md, after:

# TiDB on Kubernetes Documentation

This repository stores all the source files of [TiDB on Kubernetes documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/) at the PingCAP website. That is, the documentation for [TiDB Operator](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator).

Currently, the official documentation supports two languages:

- `en`: [documentation in English](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable)
- `zh`: [documentation in Chinese](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable)

You can use Google Translate to view the documentation in different languages. For example:

- `fr`: [documentation in French](https://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=en&tl=fr&u=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpingcap%2Fdocs-tidb-operator%2Fblob%2Fmaster%2Fen%2FTOC.md)
- `ja`: [documentation in Japanese](https://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=en&tl=ja&u=https://github.com/pingcap/docs-tidb-operator/blob/master/en/TOC.md)
- `ko`: [documentation in Korean](https://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=en&tl=ko&u=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpingcap%2Fdocs-tidb-operator%2Fblob%2Fmaster%2Fen%2FTOC.md)

## Documentation versions

Currently, we maintain the following versions for TiDB on Kubernetes documentation, each with a separate branch:

| Branch name | Version description |
| :--- | :-- |
| `master` | the latest development version |
| `release-1.5` | the 1.5 version (beta) |
| `release-1.4` | the 1.4 version (latest stable) |
| `release-1.3` | the 1.3 version |
| `release-1.2` | the 1.2 version |
| `release-1.1` | the 1.1 version (archived) |
| `release-1.0` | the 1.0 version (archived) |

> **Note:**
>
> - Previously, we maintain the TiDB on Kubernetes documentation in the [docs](https://github.com/pingcap/docs) and [docs-cn](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn) repository.
> - Since March 31, 2020, all the TiDB on Kubernetes documentation has been moved to this repository, and maintained based on versions in the branches above.

## License

All documentation starting from TiDB Operator v1.5 is available under the terms of [CC BY-SA 3.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/).
